{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red15\green15\blue15;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
{\info
{\title Resume}}\vieww11500\viewh10200\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl1080

\f0\fs60 \cf2 Michael Bates\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320\sa200

\i\fs24 \cf0 WEB AND IOS DEVELOPMENT WITH PASSION AND PRECISION
\i0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa400
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:mklbtz@gmail.com"}}{\fldrslt 
\fs22 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 mklbtz@gmail.com}}
\fs22  \'97 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "tel:5025485769"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 (502) 548\'965769}} \'97 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://mklbtz.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 mklbtz.com}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa200

\fs42 \cf2 Summary\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340
\ls1\ilvl0
\b\fs22 \cf0 		BS in Computer Science
\b0  with a Minor in Math from the University of Kentucky.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\b 		Web development
\b0  experience at CirrusMio and U.K. Department of Communication.\
\ls1\ilvl0
\b 		iOS app
\b0  programming experience at CirrusMio and Alltech.\
		Proficient with 
\b Objective-C
\b0  (Cocoa Touch), 
\b Ruby on Rails
\b0 , PHP, and Python.\
		Proficient in relational database design and 
\b MySQL
\b0 .\
		Involvement in {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://startupweekend.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Startup Weekend}} and other entrepreneurial opportunities.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa200

\fs42 \cf2 Web & iOS Developer at CirrusMio, Inc.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa400

\fs22 \cf0 May 2014 - present\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340
\ls2\ilvl0
\b \cf0 		Built the iOS app for an enterprise-class, document-storage-and-sync service.
\b0  I both designed and implemented the user experience for this application. This was contracted work done for a well-known, local, corporate client.\
\ls2\ilvl0
\b 		Assisted development of enterprise-level CMS using Ruby on Rails.
\b0  Following Agile development practices, I helped implement this software for the same client. I used tools like {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.vagrantup.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Vagrant}}, {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.getchef.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Chef}}, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://theforeman.org/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Foreman}} in addition to Rails.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa200

\fs42 \cf2 Web Developer at U.K. Department of Communication\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa400

\fs22 \cf0 Sept. 2011 - May 2014\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340
\ls3\ilvl0
\b \cf0 		Designed and developed intern-management software using PHP, MySQL, and Bootstrap.
\b0  Worked with a faculty client to build this system and fill three needs: 
\b 1)
\b0  Provide students with online applications for the internship program. 
\b 2)
\b0  Allow the director of the internship program to review and approve new applicants. 
\b 3)
\b0  Keep records of all students and companies who have been involved in the program since 2009.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\b 		Built several research websites that allowed researchers to systematically analyze data.
\b0  Became proficient with MySQL and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://ellislab.com/codeigniter"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Codeigniter}}\'97an object-oriented PHP framework which served as the application codebase. These websites were useful because they allowed researchers to work efficiently and think creatively.\
\ls3\ilvl0
\b 		Created dynamic surveys
\b0  by integrating PHP, MySQL, and {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.filemaker.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 FileMaker}} with {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.qualtrics.com/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Qualtrics}} survey software. These surveys included authentication to the university {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Active_Directory"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Active Directory}} servers and integration with our faculty and student enrollment databases. These surveys were used for course examinations and faculty ballot boxes, among other things.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl560\sa200

\fs42 \cf2 IT Department Intern at Alltech, Inc.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl340\sa400

\fs22 \cf0 May 2011 - July 2011\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl340
\ls4\ilvl0
\b \cf0 		Developed a custom iOS app
\b0  for Marketing managers to view sales data. Managers could see weekly and monthly sales figures pulled from XML content on company servers. Because this was Alltech\'92s first foray into iOS development, I became a helpful resource for my coworkers regarding Apple development.\
\ls4\ilvl0
\b 		Researched and recommended software
\b0  which allowed the Legal department to archive case-matter emails to their SharePoint site. The purpose was twofold: to create a permanent storage solution for important emails and to increase productivity by keeping emails in context with related documents. The software was a plug-in for Microsoft Outlook called {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://harmon.ie/"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 Harmon.ie}}.\
}